It's time to combine situations and hazards together and then evaluate risks.
Once we know how high our risks are,
we can figure out how to bring risks down to acceptable levels.
Back in the introductory lesson,
we talked about evaluating risk with the equation risk equal severity,
times probability of occurrence.
In that lesson, we simplified things a bit.
In the ISO 26262 standard,
the risk is defined slightly differently with the equation risk
equal severity of a malfunction times probability of loss due to a malfunction.
You have already seen severity in the introduction.
Probability of loss due to a malfunction takes into
account two terms called exposure and controllability.
Risk then equals severity times exposure, times controllability.
Let's discuss each one of these factors in turn.
We introduce severity earlier.
Severity measures how badly a person could get injured in an accident.
In the ISO 26262 standard,
severity has four levels,
labeled S0, S1, S2 and S3.
S0 represents no injuries whereas S3 implies life threatening or fatal injuries.
For example, a situation in which the vehicle travels
over 40 kilometers per hour would have severity of S3.
In the situational analysis for the lane departure warning,
we considered that the driver was traveling at a high speed,
so the severity would be S3.
You can use this table below as a guide for
evaluating the severity of the situation under consideration.